DMS-UI User Docs Update (#260)
overture-stack/website: markdown/documentation/dmsui/installation/configuration/arranger.md

---
title: Integrating Arranger
---

> Before integrating Arranger make sure you have Arranger running with an Elasticsearch instance connected. For instructions on setting up arranger see our [arranger documentation here](https://overture.bio/documentation/arranger)

Reviewer: For my fellow pedantic, cognitively impaired devs lol
```suggestion
Before integrating, make sure to have Arranger Server running correctly and connected to an Elasticsearch instance. For instructions on setting that up, see our [Arranger documentation here](https://overture.bio/documentation/arranger)
```

1. Copy the `.env.schema` and rename the new file to `.env.local`

2. Update the following fields within your `.env.local`. These values are based of the default elasticsearch values supplied by Arranger.

```
######### Arranger
NEXT_PUBLIC_ARRANGER_DOCUMENT_TYPE=file 
NEXT_PUBLIC_ARRANGER_INDEX=file_centric_1.0
NEXT_PUBLIC_ARRANGER_API_URL=http://localhost:5000/

> # Columns are field names separated by commas, with or without quotes
> NEXT_PUBLIC_ARRANGER_MANIFEST_COLUMNS=fieldName, "fieldName", 'fieldName'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Columns are field names separated by commas, with or without quotes
# this is where you'd provide here the fields you want to use for manifest downloads
# NEXT_PUBLIC_ARRANGER_MANIFEST_COLUMNS=fieldName, "fieldName", 'fieldName'
```

```

> 3. Restart the DMS-UI by exiting out and re-running `npm run dev`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Restart the DMS-UI. This can be done by exiting out (Ctrl/Cmd + C), and re-running `npm run dev`.
```

> Once compiled you should be able to see Arranger running in the DMS-UI.

Reviewer: what would "see Arranger running" look like?
it may be worth for us to show examples here.

Author: Ah this is probably my docker, I was having issues, I'll update this!

Reviewer: Let me know how I can assist
